# Code-and-Data-for-``Structural Change Detection in Dynamic Systems''
Supplementary codes and data for ``Structural Change Detection in Dynamic Systems''

## Data and software availability
- The Italian COVID-19 dataset is available from Johns Hopkins University Center for Systems Science and Engineering (JHU CCSE) Coronavirus (https://systems.jhu.edu/research/public-health/ncov/) and the dataset can be derived through the R package ``coronavirus''. 
- The global temperature reconstruction dataset for the Holocene (the past 11,300 years) is compiled by [1].

## Code and Data for ``Structural Change Detection in Dynamic Systems''
### Overview

1. Directory *utils* contains the main functions for conducting structural change detection in dynamic systems. Specifically,
- The R script ***seededInterval*** contains the code for generating seeded intervals.
- The R script ***residualFunc*** contains the code for calculating the target optimization function.
- The R script ***StatGenerator*** contains the code for computing the test statistics, including the GLR statistic.
- The R script ***SNOT-Algorithm*** contains the code for conducting SNOT algorithm with different test statistics.
- The R script ***mopsFunc*** contains the code for the SPC FDR control procedure.

2. Directory *Simulations* contains the main functions for conducting simulations. Specifically,
- The R script ***Simulation-FN-General*** contains the code for conducting simulations for FN equation with general structural change.
- The R script ***Simulation-FN-Structural*** contains the code for conducting simulations for FN equation with systematic structural change.
- The R script ***Simulation-FN-Compare*** contains the code for comparing detection performances of different detection methods for general structural change with trajectory V(t) only.
- The R script ***Linear-Compare*** contains the code for conducting simulations for linear system.
- The R script ***Regression-Compare*** contains the code for conducting simulations for linear regression system.
- The R script ***Summarize-Simulation*** contains the code for summarizing simulation results.

3. Directory *Applications* contains the main functions and datasets for conducting analysis on the Italian COVID-19 data and the global temperature reconstruction dataset for the Holocene. Specifically, 
- The dataset ***covid19Italy.RData*** contains the Italian COVID19 dataset and is generated by the R script ***covid19Data_Generation***. We remark here that the .RData file is for review only, one can access the original dataset through R package ``coronavirus''.
- The dataset ***Marcott13.csv*** is a copied file of ``marcott.sm.database.s1.xlsx'' in [1] (for coding covenience) and the dataset ***Marcott13.RData*** is the analyzed dataset which takes the 1sigma uncertainty into account. These two datasets are for review only, one can access the original dataset from [1].
- The R script ***SIR*** contains the code for detecting structural changes in the Italian COVID-19 dataset.
- The R script ***Holocene Temperature*** contains the code for detecting structural changes in the global temperature reconstruction dataset for the Holocene.

## References
[1]. Marcott et al. A reconstruction of regional and global temperature for the past 11,300 years. Science, 339(6124):1198-1201, 2013.
